Node : General

To see which version of Node is installed, type the following in the command line:
  node -v

Note: The same procedure applies to NPM.

Three important methods on the console object are log(), error(), and dir(). All three can be used for development and debugging purposes.

To experiment with JavaScript in the terminal (command line), type node. It will bring up the REPL (Read, Evaluate, Print, Loop). It's a quick, lightweight way to test ideas.

What's impressive about Node is that one is able to create a JavaScript application outside of the browser. 

In the browser, a JavaScript program can be split into two parts: native objects (String, Array, Date, Math, etc.) and host objects (Window, Document, History, XMLHttpRequest, etc.).

Node Host Objects . . . http, https, fs (file system), url, os, etc.

Why use Node?

Here are two big reasons to use Node: 1) asynchronous and 2) non-blocking. Node requires fewer system resources because of its non-blocking nature.

As a Node developer, what should you do to find help?

1) Search engines 
2) Node documentation site (nodejs.org)
Note: Generally, API (application program interface) and documentation are interchangeable.


Node : Events

In JavaScript, there are two types of events: user and system.
User = 'click' (mouse), etc.
System = setTimeout() and onreadystatechange, etc.

On the "data" event in Node, the response body will be a Buffer, a common data type emitted by Node networks and file events. These buffers allow for streams of data. Streams are important because a program does not have to finish acquiring the data before it's sent. It is sent in chunks. To convert from Buffer to String, use the toString() method. Use a variable to concatenate the data as it comes in. 

When the data has finished coming in, the "end" event fires, signaling to the user that no more data is heading your way.


Node : Questions

Q. If you see an .on() method being called, what does this indicate?
A. "on" indicates that an object is responding to an event, such as error, data, etc. When the event has been triggered, the next course is usually a callback that responds accordingly.

Q. How do you exit the Node REPL?
A. Press Ctrl + c twice.

Q. In Node, the stability index is critical. What does an index of 0 indicate?
A. Deprecated.

Q. What is Node's default JavaScript engine?
A. Chrome's V8

Q. What are the four P's?
A. Prepare, Plan, Perform, Perfect
