Gulp General

Gulp automates tasks: CoffeeScript to Javascript and Sass to CSS, to name a couple.

It is a task runner. But what is a "task runner"? A task runner automates tasks for you.

Tasks are normally described in a single file or multiple files. They can be called by the Gulp engine.

Gulp can do the following:

Concatenate Javascript files
Minify Javascript files
Compile Sass into CSS
Use "watch"
Scaffold tasks into multiple files

Major Points: 

When creating a gulpfile.js, make certain to place it in the root of your project.

When you type gulp into the terminal, it will run your "default" task. 
Normally, you specify gulp <your_task_name>, but you don't have to with a "default" task.


Gulp Installation

Gulp is a Node technology. To run it, you must have Node(.js) and NPM (Node Package Manager) installed on your machine.

Check for installation, from command line (terminal): 
npm -v // Shows version
node -v // Shows version
Note: If you want to discover the path to the program, type which node (or npm).

With Node and NPM, create a package.json file. Run npm init in the command line. Fill out the information, as needed.
If you don't want to npm init, type npm install. This will install all the dependencies from the provided package.json file.

Done, let's now save gulp as a development dependency. Run npm install gulp --save-dev

Once you have installed gulp locally, install it globally:
npm install -g gulp
Installing gulp globally ensures that it is available system wide.

Check package.json to see the local change.

Now, create a gulpfile.js, adding 'use strict'; at the top.
This ensures the Node engine runs the file in a "strict" interpretation.

At this point, I will discuss notes in the gulpfile.js, so I'll see you there!


Gulp Plugins

One negative about Gulp is that you have to "require" many plugins (modules). The good news--these plugins are reliable because of the great Gulp community.

You should rarely (if ever) have to build a plugin yourself.
As time goes on, more will come about.

A notable plugin is gulp-concat. (It concatenates (combines) multiple files into one file.) To install gulp-concat, run the following:
npm install gulp-concat --save-dev

In this repository, you'll notice a basic index.html file.
It should have three scripts at the bottom, from js/*.js. Let's combine (concatenate) them into one file, named all.js!
I'll see you in gulpfile.js!


Gulp Minification

Minification compresses your files. This can improve the overall experience of your website.

To add this, run the following:
npm install gulp-uglify --save-dev 

Head to gulpfile.js!


Gulp Source Maps

Let's say that you have successfully compiled and combined all Sass files into one CSS file. Great! But there is a problem to this methodology. If you wanted to track down where something occurs, it might be difficult. Thankfully, there is a solution: source maps.
Note: source maps can be used with JavaScript, too!

(Example is in gulpfile.js.)


Gulp Questions

Q. Which file does Gulp look for to run defined tasks?
A. gulpfile.js

Q. When you run gulp by itself, Gulp invokes what?
A. It invokes the "default" task.

Q. Why would you combine all files into a single file?
A. A browser only has to make a request from one file, speeding up performance.
